AIs
---
* MIRA

During the past year, John attended the New Approaches and Concepts in
Microbiology at EMBL in Heidelberg Germany, where he presented a poster on his
work. He is expanding his skill set in the domain of statistical data analysis
and machine learning computation in order to better design and interpret
large-scale competitive pooled growth experiments. He is taking online courses
in the use and applications of machine learning libraries such as TensorFlow.

John spent much of the last year exploring and analyzing the data from the
initial large pooled growth experiments.  He has built a predictive model of
fitness for CRISPRi strains with mismatched guides targeting essential genes.
We believe the output of this predictive model serves as an effective proxy for
the actual expression level of a targeted gene, which would enable direct
exploration of dose-response curves for the gene products of essential genes.
John is collaborating on experiments to test this hypothesis and validate
central underlying assumptions.

With the foundational elements of that analysis complete, John has turned to
applying and testing that analysis.  He has used his predictive model, along
with the direct fitness measurements from the pooled growth experiments, to
design and order two new libraries of guide oligos.  Construction of the strain
libraries based on these dna libraries is underway, and we expect to perform the
corresponding growth experiments soon.  We anticipate the new data will further
improve both the performance and the interpretability of the predictive model,
simultaneously demonstrating the power of a more compact allelic-series library
and allowing us to verify the gene-specific nature of the fitness outcomes we
see.

* V2
    * Meet w/ Cameron/BMK
    * Ask more questions

* Horia
    * DCA writeup


Paper/TC plan
-------------

What we have
============
* Diverse phenotypes for each essential gene *in Bsu*
* Predictive model
* Indirect validation that model predicts knockdown
    * GFP data
    * Predictive model inter-operation
    * Alignment of dfrA and GFP trained parameters
* Variety of different shapes for predicted-maybe-knockdown vs fitness

What we are adding
==================
* Direct validation (or not) that model predicts knockdown?
* Small library capturing allelic outcomes
* 10-parent essential library

Open questions
==============
* Is this "direct validation" sufficient?
* Do we need to close the Eco vs. Bsu gaps?

Horia's Proposal
================

* Intermediate phenotypes?
* How does it work?
* Universal across bacteria?

Done
----

Strains to MLS
==============
* GFP/dCas9 w AmyE free
* GFP library in Bsu?

TODO
----

TCM
===

Where we were:
* Analyzed comprehensive library
* Phenotypic series
* Validated individual knockdowns
* Validated predictions, particularly gene-by-gene

New:
* BMK experiments
* Libraries in preparation

Developments/Paper Outline:
* Melanie's data
* Horia's reframe of model construction

Libraries
+++++++++

Eco Li-braries
=============
* V2 Explore
* V2 Exploit
* deep
  * folA
  * murA
* Controls

Bsu Libraries
=============
* deep
  * dfrA
  * murAA

Steps
=====
* pull out dfrA, murAA, folA, murA
  * find locus tags for dfrA, murAA, folA, murA
  * dfrA:  BSU21810
  * murAA: BSU36760
  * folA:  ECK0049
           BW25113_0048
  * murA:  ECK3178
           BW25113_3189
* oligo_lib.py
  * Update functions to bypass BSU hardcoding
  * pass through deep libraries
